sponsored by surf shark VPN click on the
link in the description to get 83% off
and one month extra for free we take a
lot of the technology around us today
for granted like many computers for
phones that last the entire day which
was unheard of not too long ago but what
if your phone lasted three to four days
on a charge or a laptop that can be
pushed to the limits for an entire day
without needing to be plugged in at all
or an Eevee that can go 5 to 600 miles
and charge in minutes and cost less than
an internal-combustion engine car
there's been a lot of hype around solid
state batteries for years now but where
do things stand today and how much
longer do we have to wait before we
start seeing solid state batteries in
the technologies that we use every
single day I met feral
welcome to decided the excitement around
solid state batteries is understandable
with companies like Toyota teasing a
solid state battery vehicle around the
time of the Winter Olympics the buzz
continues to grow the lithium-ion
batteries that we use today as great as
they are have some drawbacks that solid
state is trying to solve and to
understand those drawbacks we need to
look at the basic components of a
battery there's a positive electrode or
cathode which is usually something like
a nickel cobalt aluminum formula and
there's a perforated separator to keep
it isolated from the negative side or
anode which is usually a compound of a
carbon material like graphite finally
all of this will be filled with a liquid
electrolyte that allows the free flow of
ions back and forth between the anode
and cathode during charging and
discharging you can substitute many
chemical formulations for the cathode
and the anode but the liquid or gel
electrolytes and most of the batteries
that we use today are highly combustible
this can happen because of manufacturing
defects or damage to the cell but it's
also a problem because of something
called dendrites metal can build up in
the anode and slowly create stalactite
like growths and those can extend and
puncture the separator between the anode
and the cathode and that's when you get
exploding batteries so how does a
solid-state battery solve that problem
they replaced the liquid electrolyte
with you probably guessed it that's
most often a ceramic or glassy
electrolyte now these salad electrolytes
aren't flammable which means a big
improvement with safety but a bigger
benefit of solid electrolytes is the
ability to use other anode materials
like lithium metal which has the highest
theoretical storage capacity in fact
lithium metal was used in some of the
first lithium-ion battery research in
1979 however one of the reasons we
haven't used lithium metal and batteries
up until this point is because they
suffer from dendrite growth which is as
I mentioned before kind of a bad thing
there's been a lot of really interesting
research in recent years that may have
solutions to that problem though MIT
researchers have developed something
called mixed ionic electronic conductors
or miec an electron and lithium ion
insulators or Li now that's that's a
mouthful it's a three dimensional
honeycomb architecture with nanoscale
tubes made from miec and the tubes are
infused with lithium metal which forms
the anode the fascinating part of this
breakthrough is that the honeycomb
pattern gives the lithium metal room to
expand and contract during charging and
discharging giving the battery room to
breathe avoids cracking and that Li
coating the tubes acts as a barrier
protecting them from the solid
electrolyte now all of this means having
a true solid-state battery without the
need for any liquid or gel mixed in and
no dendrite growth a company called ion
storage systems has developed a super
thin ceramic electrolyte that's about 10
micrometers thick which is about the
same thickness as today's plastic
separators used in liquid electrolytes
now each side of the ceramic electrolyte
is covered in a super thin layer of
aluminum oxide that helps to reduce
resistance the company's prototype
battery had a specific energy of 300
watt hours per kilogram and is capable
of charging in five to ten minutes for a
point of comparison today's commercial
lithium ion batteries can do about 250
watt hours per kilogram IBM and Daimler
announced a breakthrough cells day
battery that used IBM's quantum
computing on a battery chemistry that
uses no heavy metals such as nickel or
cobalt and that aren't extracted in
damaging ways but unlike other big
breakthrough announcements they provide
no details that can be explained or
corroborate
all we know is what they've told us and
it's very vague like that it can
supposedly charge to 80% in five minutes
and match the energy density of
state-of-the-art lithium batteries this
announcement has been met with a lot of
skepticism due to the lack of details
but one announcement which is the
biggest of them all it's back to the
legendary rock star of the battery
technologies himself and Nobel Prize
winner John be good enough together with
his co-author Maria Elena Braga they
announced a glass battery at 97 years
old John Goodenough is still researching
battery chemistry is to replace
lithium-ion batteries with something
better faster safer and ecologically
sound something that would be cheaper
than gas and would push humanity off the
need to use fossil fuels both Maria
Braga and John Goodenough think they've
unlocked that potential with their
discovery the glass battery doesn't use
cobalt and lithium could eventually be
replaced with easily accessible sodium
that means these batteries could be
biodegradable at some point as you
probably guessed from the nickname it's
using a glass electrolyte they can last
for more than 23,000 charge and
discharge cycles which is more than a
minor improvement over several thousand
for a typical lithium-ion cell now
there's still some debate from battery
researchers around good enough and
Broca's findings but goodness
credentials as one of the inventors of
the lithium-ion battery add a lot of
credibility to the findings but before I
get to what that means for the future of
solid-state batteries and when we might
see them I'd like to thank surfs truck
for sponsoring this video
I spent my fair share of time using free
Wi-Fi and airports coffee shops and
hotels and whenever I do I always use a
VPN to protect my data free Wi-Fi may be
free but it's not secure surf shark
encrypts all of the data that you send
over the internet so your private data
like passwords messages photos videos
and whatever you're doing online stays
private you can change your country
location which can unlock content and
surf shark also provides more protection
with clean web which blocks ads trackers
and malicious websites one of the best
parts of surf shark is that it's easy to
set up on all of your devices whether
that's iphone or android mac or pc surf
shark is the only VPN to offer one
account to use with an unlimited
number of devices use my code to get
eighty-three percent off plus one extra
month for free and surf shark offers a
30-day money-back guarantees there's no
risk to try it out for yourself link in
the description below and thanks to surf
shark and all of you for supporting the
channel now this all leads me to the
giant question of win when will we
finally see the south state batteries
hit the market we've heard of promises
of solid state battery breakthroughs for
years but have yet to see them in a
while and that's part of why I selected
some of the examples that I did like the
IBM example when it comes to news
reports and public perception there's a
disconnect between research and
breakthroughs in the lab versus when it
becomes commercialized in the
marketplace there's often the perception
that'll be a product within a year or
two which is actually something IBM
stated in their announcement they
partnered with mercedes-benz R&D North
America a Japanese chemical company
called central glass and a battery
startup called sidess to test the
battery a direct quote from an interview
with OEE spectrum said iBM has built
prototype pouch battery cells in the lab
which give her group confidence that
they could develop a commercial product
for limited applications example
portable power tools within one to two
years one to two years that's exciting
unless you pay attention to the
specifics of limited applications like
portable power tools this isn't
something that's going to be an EVs
anytime soon sadly some companies
perpetuate this misperception on purpose
to appear as though they're relevant and
competitive in the marketplace at CES
this year Mercedes showed off their
avatar concept car which is made of
environmentally friendly materials and a
cutting-edge battery pack that's fully
recyclable that got a lot of headlines
but in an interview with Mercedes senior
manager of battery research he stated
that the battery technology is currently
in lab testing and about 10 to 15 years
away I just recently had a video about C
ATL and their prismatic cell 2-pack
technology that Tesla may be using soon
well C ATL also produce a solid-state
battery sample but said it wouldn't be
commercialized until after 2030 now I
don't bring all of this up to squash the
excitement around the research
breakthroughs with solid-state batteries
it's important to keep things in context
and understand that it's incredibly
difficult to go from lab to
manufacturing at scale cost-effectively
remember that it was over a decade
between the original lithium-ion battery
research and Sony producing the first
commercially available version and even
John Goodenough
thinks it's going to be five to ten
years before solid-state batteries will
become commercially successful even
Toyota's planned solid state vehicle
announcement around the time of the
Olympics is another good indicator
Toyota's R&D chief has said we will
produce a car with solid state batteries
and unveil it to you in 2020 but mass
production with cells state batteries
will be a little later and by a little
later he means mid 2020s at the earliest
we're a giant middle step of solid state
research which is trying to apply what
has been learned in the lab to
real-world production in limited
situations John Goodenough is doing that
with hydro-quebec the University of
Texas at Austin owns the patents to the
glass battery but is working with
hydro-quebec to try to commercialize the
technology we believe there will be a
significant development work and testing
required before hydro-quebec will know
whether a product can be manufactured
and how such a product might perform
compared to existing lithium-ion battery
cells we're most likely going to see
solid-state battery technology hit the
market in small batches in very limited
ways the difficulty in manufacturing
yields and costs will mean it's most
likely going to be used at small form
factors like consumer electronics think
smart phones and smart watches as the
processing chemistry's get perfected
we'll start to see it in larger scale
products and ultimately v's I wouldn't
be surprised if John Goodenough
prediction is accurate and that we'll
see the first batteries in five years or
so but we're most likely a decade away
before it starts to make significant
inroads but once it does it's gonna
change everything again everything we
know and expect out of consumer
electronics health technology and EVs
will shift we'll be able to charge
phones and cars in minutes instead of
hours I'm really excited to see where
solid-state batteries can take us in the
future for the time being we'll just
need to be a little bit patient and jump
in the comments and let me know if
you're excited for solid-state batteries
and what technologies you're most
excited to see it if you like this video
be sure to give it a thumbs up and share
with your friends because it really
helped
support the channel and be sure to check
out my new podcast that I started with
my brother we discussed the previous
week's video and some of your feedback
and you can find out more it's still TBD
fm or just search for still to be
determined on your podcast host of
choice give it a listen and let me know
what you think if you think I've earned
it I hope you'll consider subscribing
and hang the notification bell to get
alerts when I post new video without
that Bell you might miss out and as
always an extra big thank you to all my
patrons I've got a lot of exciting
videos in the works and your support is
really making this possible be sure to
check out my patreon page for additional
details about join the crew and as
always thanks so much for watching I'll
see you in the next one